---
layout: page
name: Keynotes
permalink: /keynote/

---

<img class="keynotepic" src="{{site.baseurl}}/resources/images/balakrishnan.jpg" />

<h2>Making Roads Safer by Making Drivers Better</h2>

[Hari Balakrishnan](http://nms.csail.mit.edu/~hari/)

<br/>

<p>The world's roads see over 50 million injuries and 1.25 million
fatalities every year; road accidents are now the leading cause of
death among people between the ages of 15 and 30. This talk will
describe how mobile sensing, large-scale data analytics, and applied
machine learning can improve road safety by making people better
drivers. I'll discuss several research and engineering challenges in
achieving this goal, as well as learnings from successful commercial
deployments in multiple countries. Interesting problems include
inferring vehicular dynamics and trajectories from noisy sensor data;
activity classification; detecting and discouraging distracted
driving; designing good incentives, feedback, and "safety challenge"
games; back-end scaling of a workload consisting of resource-intensive
processing and interactive social features; and the design of new
sensing platforms.</p>

<br/>

<strong>Bio:</strong>

<p>Hari Balakrishnan is the Fujitsu Professor of Computer Science and a
Director of MIT's Center for Wireless Networks and Mobile
Computing. His research is in networked computer systems, with current
interests in networking, data management, and sensing for a world of
"truly mobile" devices connected to cloud services running in large
datacenters. He and Sam Madden led the CarTel project at MIT, which
made several pioneering contributions in the area of vehicular sensor
computing and networking. Building on this research, they started
Cambridge Mobile Telematics (CMT), a company that develops mobile
sensing, inferencing, and data analytics technologies to change driver
behavior and make roads safer around the world. </p>
